Pr/stthomas/agents (#40627)
dotnet/docs: docs/ai/conceptual/agents.md

Reviewer: Should add this file to the TOC

Author: Great minds...Genevieve also pointed this out. Thanks! I'll update the TOC.

Reviewer 2: Does it need to be added to the TOC?

Author: Yep - thanks for the reminder

Author: done

---

> title: "Let Agents and Copilots Bring Functionality to Your App"

Reviewer: This title seems more task oriented than conceptual.

Author: You're right - I'll adjust it.

description: "Learn how agents and copilots intelligently extend the functionality of LLMs to efficiently meet user goals in .NET."
author: catbutler
ms.topic: concept-article #Don't change.
ms.date: 04/15/2024

#customer intent: As a .NET developer, I want to understand how agents and copilots extend the functionality of AI apps, so that my apps can handle any type of content and meet more user goals.

---

# How agents and copilots work with LLMs

Agents and copilots both extend an LLM's capabilities by intelligently invoking external functionality, such as sending an email.

> - **An agent** is an artificial intelligence that can answer questions and automate processes for users. Agents can determine which functions will meet a user's goal, and then call those functions on the user's behalf.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- An *agent* is an artificial intelligence that can answer questions and automate processes for users. Agents can determine which functions will meet a user's goal, and then call those functions on the user's behalf.
```

> - **A copilot** is a type of agent that works side-by-side with a user. Unlike an agent, a copilot isn't fully automated&mdash;it relies on user interaction. A copilot can help a user complete a task by providing suggestions and recommendations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A *copilot* is a type of agent that works side-by-side with a user. Unlike an agent, a copilot isn't fully automated&mdash;it relies on user interaction. A copilot can help a user complete a task by providing suggestions and recommendations.
```

Reviewer 2: See https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/contribute/content/text-formatting-guidelines#italics for use of bold vs. italics.

> For example, suppose you're building an email chat helper app. Along with the LLM, you'll also need a way to perform email-related actions, as well as functions for searching, summarizing, determining intent, and the like. Creating the plugins is only half the battle: you still need to invoke the right functions at the right time, a process with many opportunities for errors and inefficiencies. An agent can handle it better.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, suppose you're building an email chat helper app. Along with the LLM, you'll also need a way to perform email-related actions, as well as functions for searching, summarizing, determining intent, and the like. Creating the plugins is only half the battle: you still need to invoke the right functions at the right time, a process that can be error-prone and inefficient. An agent can handle it better.
```

> For example, suppose you're building an email chat helper app. Along with the LLM, you'll also need a way to perform email-related actions, as well as functions for searching, summarizing, determining intent, and the like. Creating the plugins is only half the battle: you still need to invoke the right functions at the right time, a process with many opportunities for errors and inefficiencies. An agent can handle it better.

Reviewer: > Creating the plugins

It's not clear what these plugins would be, I'm assuming they would be the plugins for the LLM to handle email-related actions. If so, I'd mention them by name when you describe adding functionality to the LLM.

Author: Good call - I'll list the plugins.

Author: :+1:

## Agents automate processes

> An agent automatically decides what sequence of functions an LLM needs in order to reach a goal. For example, suppose you have a chat app that reviews new inbox items and determines what action each item requires. If you set up an agent, it can orchestrate the necessary plugin functions and perform the steps automatically.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An agent automatically decides what sequence of functions an LLM needs to reach a goal. For example, suppose you have a chat app that reviews new inbox items and determines what action each item requires. If you set up an agent, it can orchestrate the necessary plugin functions and perform the steps automatically.
```

Each agent has three core building blocks: a persona, plugins, and planners.

- [Personas](#personas) determine the manner in which agents respond to users or perform actions.
- [Plugins](#plugins) let agents retrieve information from the user or other systems. You can use pre-built plugins and your own custom plugins.
- [Planners](/semantic-kernel/agents/planners/?tabs=Csharp) let agents plan how to use available plugins.

### Personas

An agent's persona is its identity: any plugins and planners that the agent uses are tools, but the persona determines how it uses those tools. You use [instructions](prompt-engineering-dotnet.md#use-instructions-to-tell-the-model-what-to-do) in a prompt to establish an agent's persona.

> For example, you can use instructions to tell the agent that it is helping people manage emails, and to explain its decisions as it makes them.

Reviewer: Maybe give an example prompt

Author: 👍🏼

## Copilots add user interaction

Process automation has many benefits, but sometimes the user needs to make decisions along the way. An agent can't automate user actions. That's where copilots come in.

An agent in your email chat app might produce the following plan for sending an email:

1. Get the user's email address and name
1. Get the email address of the recipient
1. Get the topic of the email
1. Generate the subject and body of the email
1. Send the email

Very handy, but what if the user doesn't like the email body? A copilot adds a user interaction step to the plan:

1. Get the user's email address and name
1. Get the email address of the recipient
1. Get the topic of the email
1. Generate the subject and body of the email

> **1. Review the email with the user and make adjustments**

Reviewer 2: This doesn't work as intended:

<img width="453" alt="image" src="https://github.com/dotnet/docs/assets/24882762/a555b1fa-8462-4099-86ee-073fbbbb936a">

Author: Thanks

1. Send the email

### Semantic Kernel Chat Copilot app

To get started with copilots, try the [Semantic Kernel Chat Copilot](/semantic-kernel/chat-copilot/), a reference application for building a chat experience with an AI agent.

## Related content

> - [Develop AI agents using Azure OpenAI and the Semantic Kernel SDK](/training/paths/develop-ai-agents-azure-open-ai-semantic-kernel-sdk/)

Reviewer: I'd link to the OpenAI function calling doc once we have it, since that explains how we describe to OpenAI what functions it can call.
